.TH webusers 5 "January 02010" "ezmlm-web" "access configuration file"
.SH NAME
webusers \- define the access permissions for a directory of lists
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBwebusers\fR contains the access definitions for the lists below a certain
directory.
.PP
This file is required for every installation. Otherwise no lists are available.
This behaviour was introduced in ezmlm-web v3.3.
.PP
A webusers file is most useful if you can request some kind of authentication
from the user. Usually this should be done via http-authentication. See
the INSTALL file for more details.
.PP
Below you find an example of a \fBwebusers\fR file, that grants full access to
everyone. Be careful when using this setup.
.SH LOCATION
By default the \fBwebusers\fR file is located in the same directory as the
mailing lists. This can be adjusted with the setting \fIWEBUSERS_FILE\fR in
the configuration file ezmlmwebrc (5). Read its manpage for details.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.IP "The file consists of lines of the following form:"
.sp
LISTNAME: USER1 USER2
.PP
Empty lines and lines starting with a '#' are ignored. The same goes for
invalid configuration lines.
.PP
If \fILISTNAME\fR equals the string \fIALL\fR, then the following users are
allowed to manage all existing mailing lists.
.PP
If \fILISTNAME\fR equals the string \fIALLOW_CREATE\fR, then the following
users are allowed to create new lists.
.PP
Otherwise the named users are allowed to manage only list \fILISTNAME\fR.
.PP
If one of the usernames equals the string \fIALL\fR, then every authenticated
user is allowed to perform the action specified by \fILISTNAME\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "A minimal example access configuration file:"
.sp
.nf
comm: guy arb
users: arb
members: ALL
ALL: root
ALLOW_CREATE: root guy
.fi
.IP "A simple setup without restrictions (dangerous!):"
.sp
.nf
ALL: ALL
ALLOW_CREATE: ALL
.fi
.PP
In the example above, the users \fIroot\fR and \fIguy\fR are allowed to create
new lists.
.PP
Everyone may configure the list \fImembers\fR.
.PP
The user \fIroot\fR can manage and create every mailing list.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Lars Kruse
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <devel@sumpfralle.de>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 02010 Lars Kruse

